# cocoon-orm
Cocoon ORM is a simple to use open source alternative to the Entity Framework and nHibernate created for SQL Server 2008/2010/20012/+ and SQL Azure (but workable in other T-SQL database environments).  It is an ORM toolset that performs: automapping, auto CRUD (including joins), auto SQL, auto stored procedure parameter mapping, and more. It creates easy to inspect parametrized SQL that is execution plan and cache friendly.  The SQL that Coocoon ORM generates is the same SQL you yourself might write had you the time.  The goal of Cocoon ORM is 1 - leverage simplicity and elegance, 2-save time, 3-reduce bugs, 4-massivly reduce the amount of code required for database access.  Cocoon ORM requires no special training.  Examples are plentiful and directly applicable to your code today.  Cocoon includes regression and benchmarking tools for the truly performance paranoid.  Directly compare performance between Cocoon dynamic parametrized SQL and that of traditional stored procedure.  Cocoon ORM leverages data annotation similar to that of the Entity Framework.  Cocoon ORM is for developers who are unwilling to trust the Entity Framework or nHibernate to create and manage their database and database code.  Cocoon ORM can be used in a simplified code first or a code second environment.  Cocoon ORM developers should be comfortable with SQL Server as well.  Table generation tools are provided primarily as a time saver and not to remove the need for the developer to understand the underlying database structure.
